Capstone Assessment
Chau Tran

For our senior design project, we decided to go with a game recommender. This is a web-based application that will take in previous gaming preference and create a recommendation list of new games, either by individually or with a group of friends. This is a application that hits home for a lot of Computer Science students like myself, who usually play games for entertainment during their free time. Moreover, this also helps bring to light indie/low-cost hidden gems(games) that are not frequently advertised, which in turn benefit game developers. This project required both knowledge in Web development and Machine Learning, which is an intersection that aligns with my professional interest. Since recommender systems have already been used in movies and music, I hope to utilize that for gaming.

Going through four years immersed in Computer Science, I got a chance to learn a variety of subjects that is crucial for my current skills and experience. The first important concept I learned was Object-Oriented Programming in Data Structure CS2028, the very foundation of current applications. This transformed my of thinking, not only in programming, but also my approach on any problem - forming a goal and breaking it down to different steps/functions. From there, I continue on learning different tools and structure to formulate my solutions. I learned about graphs, hash table and different ways to tackle them in Discrete Structure CS2071 and Algorithm CS4071 class. I also learned classes that assist me in my interest in Data Science and Artificial Intelligence in Database Design and Developemnt CS4092 and AI Principles and Applications CS4033. Stepping into the final year of my undergraduate experience, I have fully-equipped and ready to challenge myself for this design project.

Initially, I was struggling with the path I should focus on from Computer Science. I was very interested in both Software Engineering and Data Science. Through my first Co-op with Viettel Solutions, a company in Vietnam, I was able to expand greatly on Machine Learning. I was a part of the AI team in there R&D department as a Data Scientist Intern. This was my first time taking a deep dive into Machine Learning to provide a solution for industrial problems. Moreover, I learned how to be a part of a group. They included me on every step of their project, from brainstorm ideas to developing a model and project pitch to clients. I was able to communicate my suggestions, my difficulties, and contribute to part of the project. After that, I took on a completely different role as a student Co-op for Machine Learning in BioInformatics for Cincinnati Children's Hospital Medical Center. I was mainly working directly under my supervisor on a research topic. With contrasting co-op experiences. I was on my own more and learned to pace myself through each difficult topic focus. With a wide experience working in different environment, I believe that I am flexible yet knowledgable enough to handle any challenges thrown at me.

As a senior in Computer Science with an interest in Artificial Intelligence, I hope to be able to create a model similar to what Spotify and Netflix achieved for music and movies, but for gaming. During my experience on college, I have found games to be a great way to wind down after all the school works and have a great time with my friends. This project aligns with not only my personal interest but my professional interest as well. I would be able to create a model, hopefully from scratch, for the first time on my own. With this project, I hope to bring everyone the joy of playing games, and exploring other hidden games that is personalized to your preference.

My approach to this project would be first be dismantling it to smaller problems/functions, completing the backbone of the project first. Working with my team, we will each find the resources for each problem and slowly building each function. After that we will work on combining the functions together to complete the application. Since my focus is on Machine Learning and Artificial Intelligence, my focus on the project would be finishing the model and being able to analyze how well it performs. I will look online for a benchmark for games recommender system and evaluate my model based on it. My goal is to be able to create a model that recommend games with 80-90% similarities. For the overall project, as a team, I hope that we are able to have a running website and have the core functionalities complete (game recommender from a number of games input).